in 2199 after five years of attacks by
an alien race known as gammalas which
rendered the surface of the earth
uninhabitable and forcing humanity to
evacuate underground
the earth defense force launches a
counter-offensive near mars
the fleet's weapons are no match for the
gamilas who easily wipe
out much of the force during the battle
edf
captain mamoru kodai volunteers to use
his damaged ship
the destroyer yuki kaze as a shield to
cover captain jutsuokitas battleship
allowing his escape mamuru's ship is
destroyed
on earth mamuru's brother susumu is
scavenging on the irradiated surface
near the half-buried wreck of the
battleship yamato
when an object impacts near him and
knocks him unconscious
he awakens to find an alien message
capsule
susumu also notices that the radiation
has been reduced to safe levels around
him
he is rescued by okata's returning ship
and it is discovered that the capsule
contains engineering schematics for a
new warp drive and coordinates for the
planet from which it came
haskandar after learning what happened
at mars
susumu accuses oka to abusing his
brother as a living shield and tries to
hit him
but crew member yuki mori violently
stops him
the radiation that covers the earth's
surface is slowly sinking into the
ground
scientists predict that the human race
will become extinct in one year
oketa believes the hope for humanity
lies at his candor
a request for volunteers for the mission
is sent out saying that a scandal
possesses a device that can remove the
effects of radiation
kodai a former edf pilot decides to
re-enlist
their last battleship the long dead
yamato is rebuilt and enhanced with
alien technology
before the yamato can launch the gamilas
attack with a gigantic missile
captain okada gives the order to fire
the yet untested wave motion cannon
which successfully destroys the incoming
missile
kodai is reunited with his old fighter
squad
yuki who joined the edf years ago
because of her admiration for kodai
is bitter towards him believing he left
out of fear
the yamato crew performs their first
warp test and encounters more gamila's
ships
since the wave motion cannon is powered
by the same reactor as the warp drive
the crew has to wait until the engine
recharges before they can warp again
the yamato destroys the alien capital
ships but the battle damages yuki's
fighter
kodai launches to rescue her and is sent
to the brig for disobeying orders
shima kodi's former squad mate and
yamata's navigator
tells yuki that kodai left the service
because he accidentally caused the death
of his own parents and also nearly
shima's pregnant wife during a mission
after warping out of the milky way the
yamato crew finds a gamal as fighter
adrift and recovers it to study
at the same time captain okay goes into
cardiac arrest
and is revealed to be terminally ill
however the alien pilot is still alive
and possesses commando team leader
hajime sato
in order to communicate the alien calls
himself tesla and says the gamblers are
a race with a hive mind
kodai stuns the possessed sato and the
alien apparently is destroyed
later an ailing captain okata makes
kodai the acting captain
he also reveals that the capsule
contained only the plans for the wave
motion engine and the coordinates to
iskandar
and the idea of the device was made up
to give humanity hope
the crew discovers the captured gamma as
fighter contains a homing beacon
giving away their position the yamato
fires its wave motion cannon to destroy
a gameless ship
but a stealth gameless spacecraft
latches onto the ship's occupied third
bridge on the bottom of the hull and
begins a self-destruct sequence
koda reluctantly orders yuki in her
fighter
to blast the third bridge support away
moments before it detonates
saving the yamato but killing several
crew koda apologizes to yuki for
ordering her to doom their crewmates
and they have a romantic moment as the
ship warps again the yamato arrives at
iskandar but is met by a large gambler's
fleet that sends a spacecraft to
obstruct the muzzle of the wave motion
cannon
with their main weapon disabled kodai
makes the dangerous choice to conduct a
random warp and ends up at the opposite
side of iskandar
they are surprised to see that it is
lifeless and in fact strongly resembles
earth in its presently irradiated state
it is then discovered that gamalas and
iskandar are the same planet
the crew thinks it is a trap but kodai
urges them to go ahead
he leads an attack party to the planet's
surface against heavy gamblers
opposition
much of the assault force is killed and
the remaining pilots stay behind to
cover for kodai
science officer sonada seto and mori as
their head for the coordinates
once they reach the coordinates an alien
possesses yuki's body and explains that
the gamalas and iskandar are two aspects
of the same race
the alien says their planet is dying and
they saw earth as the most
suitable replacement after first killing
off humanity
iskandar did not agree with this and
thus they were imprisoned
iskandar implants enuki the ability to
cleanse the radiation from earth
as she and kodai return to the yamato
sato and sanada
sacrifice themselves by destroying the
gamala's power source
destroying most of the gamala's forces
the yamato returns to earth
where okata dies the crew rejoices at
their return home
but a surviving gambler's ship ambushes
them and severely damages the battleship
disabling all of its weapons dizla now
appears and says they no longer wish to
invade the earth
however since the majority of the
gamblers were killed
he intends to destroy the planet with
his ship to avenge his race
kodai orders the surviving crew to
abandon ship before he pilots the yamato
on a kamikaze attack against
azla's ship he fires the blocked wave
motion cannon
which vaporizes both spaceships the
ending shows yuki standing with a child
kodai's son on the earth's surface now
restored to its original state